---
layout: post
title:  AI trading day 1 note
date:   2018-10-23 16:40
categories: Trading
tags: trading AI
---
* content
{: toc}

Elements vs. tags vs. attributes
opening and closing tag
self-closing

attribute can’t be used on: <base>, <head>, <meta>, <param>, or <title>










HTML is all about structuring content
visible and invisible elements
root element

called a CSS reset to zero

<!-- comment text -->

commenting out code.

⌘ + /

semantic HTML

When people talk about "semantic HTML", what they mean is that when you're choosing an HTML element to wrap content, you should choose the one that most clearly aligns with the meaning of your content.


[html tags recap](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element)

view point
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width">

accessibility
accessibility (commonly shortened to a11y

assistive technologies (often shortened as "ATs"

Bold and italics (<i>) both connote visual emphasis, whereas strong and emphasis (<em>) suggest semantic emphasis.

Visually, <b> and <strong>, and <em> and <i> look exactly the same and are

<html lang="en">

Accessible Rich Internet Applications"

Always use structured, semantic HTML
Always set the lang attribute on the opening HTML tag
Set the role attribute where appropriate, especially for sectioning elements:
<header role="banner"> for site-wide headers
<nav role="navigation"> for navigation elements
<main role="main"> for main elements
<footer role="contentinfo"> for your site's footer

### quiz

Explaining and using semantic HTML
when you're choosing an HTML element to wrap content, you should choose the one that most clearly aligns with the meaning of your content.

Taking content and structuring it into well-formed, semantic HTML
1st, an HTML document specifies each and everyone of its elements. 2nd, HTML specifies the hierarchical relationship between elements in a document.
This tree consists of a series of nodes
the <html> element the root element
he root element has children (<head> and <body>).

Explaining what a11y is and describing and following basic a11y best practices
accessibility (commonly shortened to a11y


## CSS the right way
CSS (Cascading Style Sheets)
 HTML is about structure and content (aka, the "content layer"), CSS is about style and appearance.

 The key vocabulary words for CSS are: ruleset, selector, declaration block, declarations, property, and value.

commenting in css
`/* valid */`

CSS Selectors

The selector here (p::first-letter - note the double colon) is a pseudo-element.

This is an example of inline styling and it is to be avoided

Engineers refer to this as maintaining the separation of concerns between HTML and CSS.


the browser will choose the rule with higher specificity.

Cascading
The cascade is a process browsers follow to determine which CSS values get applied for all the properties on a given element.

To determine which property-value pairs to apply to a particular element, the browser

Determines which rules apply to the element
Takes all the relevant rulesets and sorts them according to their origin (for instance, inline styles vs. external stylesheets — inline styles win over external) and importance (more on importance in a moment)
Takes all rulesets that have same origin and importance and sorts them by selector specificity
If there are still conflicting values for rulesets with the same importance, origin, and specificity, applies the ruleset that was declared last.

keyword !important(do not use it easily)

CSS resets or CSS normalization to ensure a consistent experience across browsers.

 Though box-sizing has three possible values (content-box, padding-box, and border-box), the most popular value is border-box.


### keys to remember
<hr> horizontal line


## Fonts

[<em> VS <i>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/em)


