---
layout: post
title:  github prep course
date:   2019-01-21 16:40
categories: Thinkful
tags: github
---
* content
{: toc}


cd: change directory, used to move from one directory (a.k.a., folder) to another
pwd: print working directory, used to print the name of the folder you're currently in
ls: list, used to list the contents of a directory
mkdir: make directory, used to create a new directory
touch: used to create a new (empty) file with a given name
rm: remove, used to remove a file (or folder)
rmdir: remove directory, used to remove a directory
mv: move, used to move a file or directory
cp: copy, used to copy a file or directory



`mkdir` `touch`
`cat test/foo.txt`








create nesting folders
`mkdir -p test/cats/dogs/bears`


`cd desktop/Cute animal pictures `will return an error, but `cd desktop/Cute\ animal\ picture`s will take you where you want to go. The easiest route though is to avoid spaces altogether.


`cd ../..` would take you to the grandparent directory of the one you're currently in.

`touch .hidden-file.txt` to create a new hidden file inside the test folder

To view hidden files and folders, we need to use the `-a` flag

For window user
To hide a file on Windows, you must set the file's attribute to hidden as well. This can be done in Git Bash using the attrib command. Type attrib +h plus the file path in quotations. For example:

`$ attrib +h "C:\Users\benvi\test\.hidden-file.txt"`

 `rm` (remove) and `rmdir` (remove directory)

 deleting in the command line environment is permanent!!.

dangerous
 `rm -rf /`

`rm -i` warning before permanent delete.

`rmdir` can only be used to delete empty directories

if a directory has files or directories inside, use rm `-r` recursive and `-f` automatically remove without comfirmation

Then try `rm -rf cats`. This time the (permanent!)

moving files and filders `mv`

create a new file and add a new line.
`echo "console.log('foo')" >> foo.js`

## GitHub

check local repros
`git branch -a`

delete a branch
`git branch -D feature/signup-form`

create a new branch and checkout at the same time. with `-b` flag.
`git checkout -b feature/signup-form`

different between master and a specific branch .
`git diff feature/signup-form`

merge branch to master
`git merge feature/signup-form`

reset to previous one action ago
`git reset --hard HEAD~1 `

standing for "no fast forward, done this way, merge details will be kept
if you run `git log` after running this.
`git merge --no-ff feature/signup-form`

after a merge conflict, re-stage the branch, then run `git commit` without the `-m` flag.

git conflict symbols.
`<<<<<<< HEAD, =======, and >>>>>>> feature/my-feature`



`git remote add origin https://github.com/<yourUserName>/learn-github.git`
`git push -u origin master`
`-u` flag helps, in the future only need to use `git push`. no need to do `origin master`


after creating a new branch, say `feature/add-index-html`,locally, `git push -u origin feature/add-index-html` this need to run, so git knows it's a new branch.

`git pull` is combination of `git fetch` and `git merge`;
